Risk formalisation:
    the components of the risk of credit are as follows:
    
• Default: event by which the borrower does not honor a fixed deadline, it is a "
credit accident”;
• Exposure at the date of default: this is the amount for which the bank is at risk and which
includes the outstanding capital;
• Loss given default: this corresponds to the fraction of the exposure that cannot be
retrieved; it strongly depends on the rate of collection (or recovery) in the event of
defect, itself linked to the situation of the company, to the legislation and to the presence of possible
guarantees in favor of the financial creditor;
• The default horizon, i.e. the future moment when the default may occur.



The contemporary approach to credit risk makes it possible to specify these components. In
simplifying, suppose that a bank extends credit to a company. This credit is for an amount
M repayable at maturity t. It generates an interest rate i.
If there is no default, at maturity (t) the value of this credit is:
Vt = M x (1 + i) t x R
In the event of default at this time, the bank only "recovers" a fraction R of the loan,
expressing the recovery rate. Then the value of the loan at maturity (t) is:
Vt = M x (1 + i) t x R
At time 0, when the contract is signed, the probability of default at time t and the rate of
recovery R in case of default are uncertain (random). We call p the probability of default
at time t, its value is between 0 (no fault) and 1 (fault).
As a result, the value of the contract at maturity is:
Vt = M x (1 + i) t x [1 - p x (1 - R)]
This simplified approach shows that credit risk depends on:
• The probability of default: (EDF) or (PD) probability of default;
• Exposure to default: (EAD) Exposure at default, maximum loss in the event of default;
• Loss given default: (LGD) loss given default, equal to 1 minus the recovery rate
1 - R.
Indeed, the expected loss on a credit (EL) expected loss is equal to:
EL = EAD x PD x LGD4
The expected loss on a credit is a random variable which, associated with the uncertainty on
the default horizon, constitutes the credit risk. Default (of payment) generally corresponds
to an objective and measurable event by the financial creditor: the non-keeping of a commitment of
credit, the borrower finding himself unable to honor a due date of his financial debt.
However, the defect can take on a broader meaning as the violation of a
covenant, debt restructuring or even a significant downgrading of a company's rating.
Failure to pay, in the strict sense, is a confidential event known only to the debtors and
creditors.
